When working with scroll views, you must define constraints that specify the scroll view's size, its position, and the size of the its content area. Scrolling is enabled when a scroll view's content is bigger than the scroll view's frame.

In general, to define the scroll view’s frame, create constraints between the scroll view and items outside the scroll view. To define the scroll view’s content area, create constraints between the scroll view and its contents. However, constraints between the scroll view's height, width, or center attributes and its content connect to the scroll view's frame, not the content area. These constraints lets you give the content the same height or width as the scroll view.

For this example, start by placing a scroll view over the root view. Size it to fill the screen, and pin it to the root view's edges. Next, add a view to the scroll view. This view acts as a container for the scroll view's content, and makes it easier to define the content's size. Often, the container won't have any appearance of its own; however, in this example give it a light gray color to make it easier to see. Pin this content view to the scroll view's edges.

Next, lay out the scroll view's content. In this example, we have a 4 x 4 grid of colored squares. They are pinned a standard space from each other and from the edge of the content view. The upper-left block is given a 1:1 aspect ratio, a minimum width of 80 points, and an optional width of 80 points (with a priority of 250). This means that the block can grow to fill the available space, but it must remain as a square. All the other squares have a height and width equal to that of the first block.

Finally, make sure the content view's height and width are greater than or equal to the scroll view. These constraints stretch the content so that it fills the scroll view's largest dimension. Because the content has a 1:1 aspect ratio, it will always be bigger than the scroll view's shortest dimension, letting you scroll the content along that axis.